       	
  	Headnote →
	Recently, we conducted a small survey with the first year engineering students of various branches and this is the summary queries we got. We decided to address the issues in a short video.

    	This is Anzal Hussain Abidi  and MD Rashid Hussain both pursuing B.Tech in Computer science from Jamia Millia Islamia. As a duo, we take interest in all sorts of tech involving web development, machine learning, data science, algorithms, robotics etc.

     
	Question 1: I am from a branch other than Computer science and I have interest in tech and IT, what and how should I make a career out it
	Answer: 	
  		For the other branches, getting an unwanted branch is not the end of the world as learning is not confined to CS only, neither coding has any connection to your grades or marks . The sole requirement for dev,coding or any other dev related aspirations is interest in what you want to learn and your zeal about tech.
			You can still explore your interests in the field of tech ,all the options that are open for students in cse are open for you all too.
			
   	Question 2: DSA Importance and choice of language for this ?
	Answer: 
   		Dsa is one of the most useful skills and a key player to land a good package ,although people have a general notion that DSA is only for the people who want to pursue competitive programming but it's not the case as dsa is required as a basic requirement for any programmer.
   		Be it in even development fields as there will be many scenarios when you want to optimize the performance of your code.
   		Getting a deep understanding of DSA concepts is must as you can't even clear the coding round without it which is the first and the foremost step in getting hired in a good firm.
		As far as language is concerned there is no limitations if you are confident  enough to
	Manipulate the data and portray your ideas and solutions as code.
		For you people, the preferred language is C++ as its by far close to the memory management system of a computer, has a compact and lucid syntax and is quite user-friendly in terms of manipulation. Also, that your syllabus covers C, it would be easy to switch to C++
 		JAVA and PYTHON too are good options and they have their own advantages in terms of their syntax and ease of use.
   			

  	Question 3: How to start with Web Development ?
	Answer: 
  		If you really want to get into web development you should first start with the most basic technologies and gradually expand your horizon when you grasp the topics firmly. 
  		Ideally you should start with HTML,CSS,JS and get the hang of it, this should take roughly around 1 MONTH depending on how much time you invest in this.  
  		This time includes your projects too that you would make to implement all those learnt concepts.	
		After this one month you'll get to know your interests and what suits you the best and the main question that is web dev for you or not.
		Once you figure out what you really want to do in terms of FRONTEND, BACKEND or FULL-STACK, you  can take your appropriate steps from there. It would be a time saver if you take a dedicated course on things you want to learn either from paid or unpaid platforms. 
			 
     	
 	Question 4: How can I break into ML/AI ?
	Answer: 
		Coming to ML and AI it is a deep and  interesting field of tech. To get started with machine learning , the first and foremost requirement is MATHS and  PYTHON or C++ ,by this i mean a good understanding of statistical and graphical maths ,a good grasp on calculus and its applications is helpful.
	Python is a necessity both for future applications and your current learning.
	You should be good at exploring and pulling out relevant information about datasets.
	There will be  resources and a dedicated content material for ML and AI ahead.
			
	
       	Question 5: I get a lot of doubts while learning, how can I get them solved 
	Answer: 
		Doubt solving is very important when you are learning a new skill be it anything. When you dont get such assistance what you need at a particular  point of time, you feel lost and unconfident about the skill you are learning. You can ask questions from us anytime here, we would be more than happy to answer. It is good and always encouraged to use stack overflow, google and all of internet at your disposal. 

 	Question 6 & 7: Roadmaps and resources 
	Answer: 
		For Roadmaps, we are working on it. Within a few days, you will get roadmaps and resources for things you demand for as in course recommendations , plan of action and our own journey till now. At the end of the day, all that matters, is you mastering new skills. We would be there, just ask out explore and never ,let the zeal to le arn more, go away :)


	Question 8: I am getting frustrated and stuck at points ?
	Answer: 
		Getting stuck?? No worries. Our content is dedicated to address your issues and problems in the field of tech as a whole so please mention your problems ,with proper explanation and we will definitely find a solution for you as soon as we gather a round of information regarding your problems.
	Lack of motivation, depression and frustration suggest that you are putting efforts and these things are normal. At times, you’ll feel like giving up but remember that if you leave the rope now, it is gone and you’ll not able to catch up with it anytime soon. This would need even more hard work. Just focus and go with the flow and things would get fine. This would also set up a benchmark for you to compare and evolve over time.

	
	
	
	Footnote →
	This is the beginning of something large and purely dedicated to the community. What we aim is to help you master the skills that you really want. 



